You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWN.org.
Today's message comes from senior pastor, Dr. Bob McCartney.
Let's open our Bibles this morning to Matthew chapter 1 verse 23.
Matthew chapter 1 verse 23.
I'm beginning a short series of messages leading up to Christmas Eve.
entitled, Remember.
And what we want to remember is the true meaning of Christmas.
You know, it's very interesting to me that at Christmastime we have a unique opportunity with the gospel.
And that is that the world which for 11 months of the year is almost entirely secular.
I mean, they want nothing to do with the supernatural.
They seem to move just a little bit in our direction, and they really want to embrace the supernatural.
You see it in the entertainment at Christmastime, miracle on 34th Street, that there could be a miracle, that something miraculous could happen.
I mean, Bing Crosby and Danny Kay saved the Generals ski resort in Vermont in White Christmas,
An angel appears to George Bailey and it's a wonderful life.
The secular world moves just a little bit toward this desire to embrace the supernatural and the miraculous.
There's a reason for that.
The Bible says that God has set eternity in man's heart.
that there is something about us that longs for something infinite, something eternal.
There is something in us that craves that.
Now in our flesh we rebel against it.
But for some reason at Christmastime we move a little bit toward that.
And so as Christians let's embrace that and let's move toward the supernatural ourselves.
Let's embrace what the Bible says about the supernatural because
The Christmas story is almost entirely supernatural.
You have an angel that appears to marry and then to Joseph.
You have an angels, angels, a host of angels that appear to the shepherds.
A mysterious moving star appears in the sky and guides Middle Eastern wise men all the way to Bethlehem to meet this newborn king.
a couple well beyond the age of childbearing.
Zacharias and Elizabeth conceive and give birth to a child as well.
And his name is John.
He will be the forerunner of the Messiah proclaiming that the way of the Lord is coming and that people should be prepared for it.
But the greatest miracle of Christmas is the one that makes all other miracles really pale in comparison.
And that is the miracle that we call the incarnation.
Incarnation is not necessarily a word that you would perhaps normally use in your vocabulary.
So when we speak of the incarnation of Christ, what do we mean by that?
Well, the incarnation is the doctrine that God the Son without ceasing to be God took on human flesh
and became fully human.
Fully human, fully God.
It is the miracle that God stepped into His creation.
Now when I used a word in that definition, some of you immediately pushed back just a little bit when I called it the doctrine.
Well doctrine doesn't necessarily mean some dusty old teaching that belongs in a seminary classroom and has no practicality.
Actually,
The incarnation is imminently practical.
And when you come to understand the incarnation, it will help you face temptation.
You will come to understand how to face temptation because Jesus Christ came in the flesh.
The incarnation will help you understand prayer and embrace the reality of prayer.
It will help you deal with loneliness, with fear and yes, even grief.
The fact that Jesus Christ came, that God the Son clothed Himself in human flesh and became fully human and fully divine is one of the most practical truths in all of the Bible, but is also one of the most powerful truths in the Bible.
J.I.
Packer, one of my favorite theologians of the last century, wrote, the supreme mystery of the gospel.
is the mystery of the incarnation.
And while I cannot fully explain it because the Bible teaches it, I fully embrace it.
That this mysterious truth that Jesus was both fully God and fully man is something that we as Christians need to once again wrap our arms around and embrace this Christmas season because it is the meaning of Christmas.
The real meaning of Christmas is that Jesus Christ, God the Son, came to fully embrace all it means to be human.
Now Matthew's gospel records the Christmas story from Joseph's point of view.
Luke chapter one gives us a lot of Mary's point of view, but Matthew gives us Joseph's point of view.
And he tells us the story of how Joseph was very troubled that Mary came to him and honestly told him that she was with child and an angel told her that the Holy Spirit had conceived this child within her.
And Joseph was deeply troubled at all this.
I mean, embracing the supernatural for Joseph in that moment was not easy.
But one night Joseph went to sleep and in a dream an angel appeared to him and told him, Joseph, don't be afraid to take Mary to be your wife because everything she told you is true.
And you're going to give this little boy a name, and his name is going to be Jesus, because he's going to save his people from their sins.
And then the Bible tells us in Matthew records that all of this took place to fulfill a prophecy.
And that prophecy was uttered by the prophet Isaiah.
It is recorded in Isaiah chapter 7 verse 14.
It is recorded again here in Matthew chapter 1 verse 23.
Behold, the virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they shall name him Immanuel, which translated means God with us.
Now when people read that, they are sometimes a bit confused, and that is,
that when the Hebrew refers to Emmanuel as a name, it is more of what we would call a title.
Jesus wasn't referred to as Emmanuel in common conversation.
It wasn't a nickname that was given to him.
It was more of a title that was bestowed upon him.
And Emmanuel simply means God in our very presence.
So what does it mean?
for Jesus to be God incarnate.
God in human flesh, it simply means that the incarnation has taken place.
And here's what the incarnation means to us.
First of all, the incarnation means that God came to us.
that God came to us, that He is not a distant deity, that He is not somewhere remotely off into the heavens, and He spun the world in motion, and He kind of took His hands off of the whole thing.
That is not the way the incarnation works.
See, last weekend Stephen preached a wonderful message that I did listen to last Sunday morning, along with you, from John chapter 1.
And to refresh your memory,
In John chapter 1, John begins not at the conception of Christ and Mary.
He doesn't begin with Matthew's story.
John begins at the beginning.
And I don't mean like the beginning of Genesis 1-1.
He begins at the beginning before the beginning.
The beginning before Genesis 1-1.
He says, in the beginning was the Word.
And the Word was with God.
and the word was God.
So one of the things that we need to understand is who is this word, this logos?
In the Greeks, to the Greeks, the logos was the logical principle that explained and ordered the universe.
That is what logos is.
For the Hebrews word, the word of God, was his self-revelation.
It was his self-expression.
and his complete revelation of his character and his power and his authority.
And so when John uses that expression that the Word was with God and the Word was God, he's telling us something about the Trinitarian nature of God, that God is Father, that God is Son, that God is Holy Spirit.
And then in verse 14 of that passage, the Bible explodes with meaning.
when the Bible tells us that the Word became flesh, the Logos of God, the ordering principle of the universe, the self-expression of God, the Word of God, the Word became flesh, that He took on humanity.
Now when John uses the word flesh, he doesn't use it like Paul uses it.
Paul uses it to indicate our sinful nature.
But John is using it to express our natural physical being.
And so when John says the word took on flesh, then the supernatural ordering principle of the universe, the self-revelation of God himself, clothes himself in humanity in a human body.
The Word became flesh and He dwelt among us.
He pitched His tent right here.
That's what that Word dwelt meant.
And He pitched His tent among us and we beheld His glory, glory as the only begotten of the Father full of grace and truth.
That expression only begotten is one that needs to be understood.
We're going to talk about the incarnation and what it means for God to clothe Himself in human flesh
That expression has sometimes been confused, and quite honestly, it has been perverted by some denominations and religious groups into heresy.
When John says the only begotten of the Father, only begotten is an expression that we need to explore, because the word there is monogenesis.
And mono-genesis means mono one.
Genesis, we get our word generation, one of a kind, one of a kind, unique.
It does not, begotten does not mean created.
Now there are some groups that teach that Jesus is a created being, somehow subordinate to God the Father and the Holy Spirit.
That is not New Testament Christianity.
New Testament Christians believe in the co-equality of father, son, and Holy Spirit.
That's what New Testament Christians believe.
And if you don't believe that, you're not a New Testament Christian.
You're not.
By the way, you sing that.
Even the secular world sings that every year.
You sing it.
You sing it when you hear the words to hark the herald angels sing, veiled in flesh the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity, pleased with men as men to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel.
You sing it every year.
The secular world sings it.
I'm in Starbucks and Mariah carries belting that out over the speakers in there.
It's an amazing thing that we get so close, the secular world gets so close to embracing the real truth of Christmas and yet keeps it at a distance.
But practically for us, it means that you matter to God.
You matter so much.
that He didn't send a messenger.
He didn't send an angel.
He didn't shout His love from heaven.
He sent His Son to show His love on earth.
You are not abandoned by some distant deity.
He came to be among us, to be one of us, and to endure everything this world could dish out.
That's how much God loves you.
Everything changed when the King showed up.
back in 2020 when the COVID pandemic was, uh, was, you know, in full swing.
There were certain that by the way, I got sick with COVID and please don't tell me it wasn't real because I, I mean, I wasn't imagining what I had.
Okay.
But there were some hospitals that were overwhelmed, especially in the Northeast and in some colder areas.
And those hospitals were just, just overwhelmed with, with people.
And there was one particular nurse who was interviewed by a television reporter about something that happened.
And she said, everything changed in our hospital when one day the CEO showed up in the emergency room where all these people were.
And he put on PPE, put on the protective gear and he took a mop and he started mopping and disinfecting the areas where we had had patients.
See,
That's what incarnation is.
It comes to get involved in our mess.
It comes to risk, and he comes to be a part of everything that we're struggling with.
He's not sitting off in some office somewhere telling us what to do.
He's coming and showing us what to do.
The incarnation means that God came to us.
Secondly, the incarnation means that God identifies with us.
There are more passages than
than Matthew 1, 23, and even John chapter 1 that gives us an understanding of the incarnation.
And one of those is in the book of Hebrews.
The writer of the book of Hebrews, though we do not know exactly who it was, tells us in Hebrews chapter 2 verse 17, therefore he had to be made like his brethren in all things.
so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in all things pertaining to God to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
For since he himself was tempted in that which he has suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted.
Theologians for generations have looked into those verses and made a
particular point of those first few words, he had to be made like his brethren.
There is a moral imperative in that.
It's a statement of necessity.
The incarnation that Christ would come to enter his creation, that the infinite would become finite, that the eternal would step into time.
It was a moral necessity.
There was no other way.
for Jesus to become our great high priest.
And the book of Hebrews explains to us without Jesus becoming our great high priest to offer the sacrifice, which was himself, to satisfy the wrath of God.
Then there's no way of salvation.
The incarnation was an absolute necessity for your salvation, for my salvation, for the salvation of the world.
that He had to be made like us.
He had to enter into His creation.
It is complete identification.
It was not a simulation.
It wasn't pretend.
Jesus wasn't just some divine tourist who showed up and viewed the world and then left.
No, He actually got involved.
It was complete assimilation.
into our world.
And the writer of Hebrews says that he had to do that to make propitiation for the sins of the people, propitiation.
If you're reading from some translations, it might say to be the atoning sacrifice for the sins of the world.
That is what it means, but the word propitiation is a
a bit of a deeper and richer word.
And sometimes big words are good words.
And in this case, it's true.
You see, propitiation means the sacrifice that completely satisfies.
It is the sacrifice that is the full, sufficient, completely adequate sacrifice.
to satisfy.
What does it satisfy?
Well, it satisfies your sin debt.
We have a debt that we cannot pay.
We cannot do anything to repay our sin debt to God.
By propitiation, Jesus became the sacrifice that satisfied, that paid in full our sin debt.
But it also is the sacrifice that satisfies the wrath of God.
whom did Jesus save us from?
I'll tell you who.
We want to say hell sometimes, and that's true.
But what Jesus saved us from is the wrath of God.
God came to save us from God.
Because God is a God of love, but He is also a God of wrath and punishment for those who reject Him and refuse to repent and turn from sin.
See, the Bible tells us in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15,
We do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin.
One of the necessities of the incarnation was not only that he would become a faithful and merciful high priest, and he would make propitiation for our sins, but it is also very practical.
And it's practical for you this afternoon and tomorrow morning and on Tuesday night, it is the practicality
of him assisting us when we are tempted to sin against God.
He can sympathize with our weaknesses because he has been tempted in all points as we are.
He was fully tempted because he was human.
He did not sin because he was God.
Jesus' temptations were not shadow boxing.
They were very real.
They were full temptations.
He felt the full force of every temptation.
And yet because of his divine nature, he did not sin because God cannot sin.
Now that is a mystery that I don't fully understand, but what I do know is this, that he came to get in the mess of this world with us to show us that he loves us, he cares for us,
and that we can rely on him when we ourselves are tempted."
You see, since he himself was tempted in that which he has suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted.
2013, something happened in the Middle East and it's a rare occurrence, maybe once every 40 or 50 years.
But a cold front blew down from the north and dumped a bunch of snow on the Middle East.
And if you think Texas drivers are bad in snow, you ought to see the Middle East when it snows.
I mean, they're just totally unaccustomed to snow.
I have no idea what to do with it.
A Mon Jordan was particularly hard hit.
Over six inches of snow fell in a Mon Jordan of all places on Earth.
And people were out in their cars and they're spinning around.
They're getting stuck.
They can't move.
And one particular fellow, he got stuck in a snow drift.
He's trying to get his car out when the car behind him, the driver jumps out, another fellow jumps out and they begin to rock his car and they push him out and when they kind of freed him for that, he stopped.
He jumped out to thank them and he was absolutely stunned when he was face to face with King Abdullah II of Jordan.
He was the driver of the car behind him.
See, the king could have said, hey, go help.
to his security detail, hey, go out that guy.
I'm going to sit here in my comfortable car.
But the king got out and he showed up.
See, when the king shows up, everything changes.
And that's what happens to us.
The king of the universe showed up and he endured all that we endure, yet without sin.
And he is able to sympathize with us in our weaknesses.
That means that your failure shouldn't
It shouldn't cause you to fear his rejection.
It should cause you to run to him because of his sympathy.
God does not roll his eyes at your struggle because God knows the battle you are facing in temptation.
And he loves you so much that he cares for you.
Finally, the incarnation means that God cares for you deeply.
The incarnation means as God came in human flesh that he cares for you so deeply.
In John chapter 1 verse 10, John writes, he was in the world and the world was made through him.
He's the Creator.
The Creator shows up as part of the creation and the world did not know him.
Verse 11 is one that always gets my attention.
He came to his own
And those who were his own did not receive him.
In other words, his own did not welcome him.
They didn't welcome him at all.
I don't know if you've ever had the experience of being somewhere where you really weren't welcome.
Now maybe it wasn't overt hostility, but maybe you got an invitation by mistake.
few years ago, my wife and I are convinced this happened to us.
That we got an invitation to come to a function and we thought it a bit unusual, but we thought, well, since we got invited, we ought to show up.
So we knocked on the door and the door opened and the hostess did seem a little somewhat confused that we were there, but we were there and we went in.
And after a few awkward minutes, I looked at Mary Ann and she looked at me.
I said, I don't think we're supposed to be here.
There was just an awkwardness about the whole occasion.
And so I did what any self-respecting person would do.
I left.
I looked over at Mary Ann and said, you know what, I don't think we're welcome here.
I mean, they weren't just mean to us or anything, but it was just weird.
And I looked at Mary and she looked at me and she said, you know, I didn't really want to come anyway.
So why don't we just leave?
If you're not welcome, you usually just leave.
Well, Jesus wasn't welcome, but he stayed, but he stayed.
We didn't receive him with open arms.
He said, Oh, thank, thank the father.
He finally sent his son to save us.
People didn't say that.
He was rejected and abused and betrayed and ultimately crucified.
Why did he stay?
I won't tell you why he stayed.
He stayed because God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten one of a kind son that whosoever believes in him.
whosoever believes in Him will not perish but have eternal life."
That's why he stayed.
He stayed so that you could be rescued from your sin and your selfishness so that you could receive eternal life.
and be rescued from the wrath of God.
That's why I stayed.
So this morning, if you've never received Christ, I played with you.
The greatest gift of Christmas is the gift of Jesus.
It's His gift, and it's Him as a gift.
And He wants to come into your life
and he wants to save you and rescue you from your sin.
And this morning, you could pray a prayer right where you're sitting, to call on his name, and he will hear an answer.
The Bible says that all who call on the name of the Lord will be saved.
Anyone who asks Jesus
sincerely and in faith will receive the gift of eternal life.
Now, if you just say the words, no, but if in faith believing that God came in human flesh and as a man, he died on a cross for your sins to pay your price.
And if in sincerity of faith, you believe that he was raised from the dead and he is alive today.
And you ask him to come into your life to save you, to be your Lord and Master.
He will come.
That is a promise.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, which is not false.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWF.org.
We'll see you next week.